.\" Manpage for soko.
.\" Contact: https://github.com/CelikE/soko
.TH SOKO 1 "2026-06-15" "soko 0.21.0" "soko Manual"
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
soko \- all your git repositories, one command
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B soko
.RI [ command ]
.RI [ arguments... ]
.RI [ options... ]
.PP
.B soko
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.RB [ \-\-quiet | \-q ]
.RB [ \-\-perf ]
.IR command
.RI [ repos... ]
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B soko
(\[u5009]\[u5EAB], Japanese for "storehouse") is a fast, lightweight
command-line tool for managing many git repositories at once. Register
your repositories once, then inspect, fetch, pull, search, and navigate
all of them from anywhere with a single command \(em no more
.B cd
between directories and running
.B git status
one repository at a time.
.PP
soko shells out to
.BR git (1)
for every repository operation; it never reimplements git. It stores a
small registry of repository names and paths (plus tags, metadata,
aliases, saved contexts, and discovery settings) in a single YAML
configuration file. Read commands such as
.BR status ", " remotes ", " diff ", " stats ", and " health
never mutate a repository or touch the network. Write commands are
conservative by design: bulk pulls are fast-forward-only, destructive
operations prompt for confirmation and are recorded so they can be
reverted with
.BR "soko undo" .
.PP
Most commands accept an optional list of
.I repos
positional arguments to restrict the operation to specific
repositories. Repository selection is by name with prefix matching, so
.B soko status auth
matches
.IR auth\-service .
Commands that operate on many repositories run them in parallel unless
noted otherwise.
.PP
Running
.B soko
with no command, or with
.BR \-\-help / \-h
on any command, prints usage. If the first argument is a configured
alias (see
.BR "soko alias" ")"
and is not a built-in command, it is expanded before execution.
Built-in commands always take priority over aliases.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
These persistent options are accepted by every command.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit machine-readable JSON instead of the human-readable table. JSON
output is never colorized and is suitable for scripting. Some commands
restrict
.B \-\-json
(for example,
.B soko prune \-\-json
requires
.BR \-\-force " or " \-\-dry\-run ,
and
.B \-\-json
cannot be combined with the interactive
.BR \-\-select ")."
.TP
.BR \-\-quiet ", " \-q
Suppress hints, progress indicators, and trailing summary lines; print
only essential output. May also be enabled with the
.B SOKO_QUIET
environment variable (an explicit flag always wins over the variable).
.TP
.B \-\-perf
After a parallel command, report per-repository and aggregate timing.
May also be enabled with the
.B SOKO_PERF
environment variable (an explicit flag always wins).
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Show help for soko or any subcommand and exit.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "COMMON OPTIONS"
Several options recur across many commands and share identical meaning.
.TP
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
Restrict the command to repositories carrying the given tag. Repeatable;
multiple
.B \-\-tag
values combine with logical OR. A worktree inherits its parent
repository's tags for filtering. Supported by
.BR init ", " scan ", " status ", " remotes ", " diff ", " stash ", "
.BR list ", " fetch ", " pull ", " sync ", " branch ", " exec ", " grep ", "
.BR apply ", " open ", " report ", " stats ", " health ", " clean ", "
.BR prune ", " go ", " ui ", " "ctx save" ", " "snapshot save" ", and "
.BR "discover on" .
.TP
.BI \-\-meta " key=value"
Restrict to repositories whose metadata matches. Repeatable; multiple
values combine with logical AND. Supported by
.BR list " and " status .
See
.BR "soko annotate" .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-worktrees
Skip linked-worktree entries and operate only on parent repositories.
Supported by
.BR fetch ", " pull ", " sync ", " exec ", " grep ", and " apply .
.TP
.B \-\-select
Open the interactive picker (the same one
.B soko go
uses) with every matched repository pre-checked, so you can deselect the
ones to spare before the operation runs. It can only narrow the set,
never widen it, making it strictly safer than the all-or-nothing
default. Requires a TTY; in a pipe or CI it is ignored and the command
runs on the full set. Supported by
.BR clean ", " prune ", and " "remove \-\-all" .
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "REGISTRY COMMANDS"
Commands that register, list, and forget repositories.
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko init
Register the git repository in the current working directory. The path
is resolved through symlinks for consistent matching with
.BR scan .
Run inside a linked worktree without
.BR \-\-worktree ,
it resolves to and registers the main repository instead (and hints at
.BR \-\-worktree );
if the repository is already registered it warns and exits successfully.
Options:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
Apply a tag to the repository (repeatable).
.TP
.B \-\-worktree
Register the current directory as a linked worktree (named
.IR parent/branch )
instead of resolving to the main repository, auto-registering the parent
if needed.
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko scan <directory>
Walk a directory tree and register every git repository found. The
directory is resolved to an absolute, symlink-free path and must exist.
Hidden directories are skipped (except the root); traversal is bounded
by
.BR \-\-depth .
Already-registered repositories are reported and not re-added. Options:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
Apply tags to newly discovered repositories (repeatable).
.TP
.BI \-\-depth " n"
Maximum directory depth to scan (default 5).
.TP
.B \-\-worktrees
Also enumerate and register each repository's linked worktrees as
.I parent/branch
entries.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show what would be registered without writing the config.
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko discover <on|off|status>
Manage auto-discovery, which registers a repository the first time you
.B cd
into it. It is opt-in and driven by the shell hook (see
.BR "soko shell-init" );
with discovery enabled the hook fires on each directory change.
Enabling or disabling changes what
.B soko shell-init
emits, so open a new shell or re-run the hook afterward. With no
subcommand it prints the current status. Discovery is conservative: the
hook runs only in interactive shells, and it skips submodules, the home
directory, and
.IR node_modules / vendor
trees. Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B on
Enable auto-discovery. Options:
.BI \-\-root " dir"
(only discover under these directories, repeatable, each must exist),
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
(tag everything discovered, repeatable),
.BI \-\-ignore " glob"
(skip paths matching a
.BR filepath.Match (3)
glob, repeatable).
.TP
.B off
Disable auto-discovery.
.TP
.B status
Print whether discovery is on and, when on, its roots, tags, and ignore
patterns. Honors
.BR \-\-json .
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko list
List all registered repositories as a NAME / PATH table (a TAGS column
appears when any repository is tagged). Worktrees show their parent as
.IR "path \-> parent" .
Options:
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
(filter, OR),
.BI \-\-meta " key=value"
(filter, AND),
.B \-\-group
(render a tree grouped by effective tag, with inherited tags marked).
Honors
.BR \-\-json .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko remove [name]
Remove a repository from the registry by name; removing a parent
cascades to its linked worktrees. Options:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-path " dir"
Remove by absolute path instead of by name.
.TP
.B \-\-all
Remove every registered repository (prompts first).
.TP
.B \-\-force
Skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-select
With
.BR \-\-all ,
interactively choose which repositories to unregister.
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko prune
Remove repositories whose directories no longer exist on disk. Options:
.B \-\-dry\-run
(preview without removing),
.B \-\-force
(skip confirmation),
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
(filter, OR),
.B \-\-select
(interactively choose which missing repositories to drop). With
.BR \-\-json ,
requires
.BR \-\-force " or " \-\-dry\-run .
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "STATUS AND INSPECTION"
Read-only commands. None of these fetch (unless asked) or mutate a
repository.
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko status [repos...]
Show each repository's branch, dirty state, ahead/behind counts, and
last commit. Options:
.RS
.TP
.B \-\-fetch
Fetch from remotes before collecting status.
.TP
.B \-\-dirty
Show only repositories with uncommitted changes.
.TP
.B \-\-clean
Show only clean repositories in sync with their remote.
.TP
.B \-\-ahead
Show only repositories ahead of their remote.
.TP
.B \-\-behind
Show only repositories behind their remote.
.TP
.B \-\-group
Group repositories by tag in a tree view.
.TP
.B \-\-all
Show all repositories without truncation.
.TP
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
Filter by tag (OR).
.TP
.BI \-\-meta " key=value"
Filter by metadata (AND).
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko remotes [repos...]
The read-only sibling of
.BR status :
show each repository's origin URL and upstream tracking branch, flagging
the two problem cases \(em no remote (never pushed) and no upstream (a
local-only branch or detached HEAD) \(em in yellow. Runs no network
operations. Options:
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
(filter, OR),
.B \-\-missing\-upstream
(show only repositories with no remote or no upstream).
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko diff [repos...]
Show uncommitted file changes across repositories. Option:
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko stash [repos...]
Stash uncommitted changes (including untracked files) across
repositories under a soko-tagged stash message. Option:
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
The subcommand
.B "soko stash pop"
pops only the most recent stash of each repository when its message
contains
.IR "soko stash" ,
skipping others; it also accepts
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko branch [name] [repos...]
With no argument, show the current branch of every repository. With a
.IR name ,
show which repositories contain that branch. Option:
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B switch <name> [repos...]
Check out
.I name
in every repository that has it. Options:
.BR \-\-create / \-b
(create the branch from the default branch where missing),
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.TP
.B stale [repos...]
List unmerged branches with no commit for too long. Options:
.BI \-\-days " n"
(staleness threshold, default 90),
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko report [repos...]
Summarize recent commit activity across repositories. Options:
.BI \-\-days " n"
(look-back window, default 7),
.BI \-\-author " name"
(substring filter; defaults to your own commits),
.B \-\-all\-authors
(show everyone's commits),
.BI \-\-max " n"
(max commits per repository, default 5, 0 for all),
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko stats
Show workspace-level statistics and health metrics: total size, commit
and branch counts, clean/dirty/behind/stale/no-remote/missing signals,
and recent activity over a fixed 30-day window (a branch is stale after
90 days). Collected concurrently. Option:
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
Honors
.BR \-\-json .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko health
Score every repository on a single urgency scale and list them
worst-first, so the most neglected repository is obvious. Reuses the
.B stats
signals but ranks repositories individually rather than aggregating.
Strictly read-only. Each repository gets a numeric score and a severity
of
.IR ok ", " warn ", or " crit
(conflicts, detached HEAD, or being significantly behind force
.IR crit ).
Options:
.BI \-\-top " n"
(keep only the N highest-scoring repositories, 0 = all),
.BI \-\-threshold " level"
(minimum severity to display:
.IR warn " or " crit ),
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SYNCING"
Network commands that update local repositories. All run in parallel and
accept
.BR \-\-tag ", " \-\-no\-worktrees ", and " \-\-json .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko fetch [repos...]
Fetch all (or the named) repositories from their remotes. Option:
.B \-\-prune
(pass
.B \-\-prune
to
.B git fetch
to clean up stale remote-tracking refs).
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko pull [repos...]
Pull all (or the named) repositories. Uses
.B \-\-ff\-only
by default, so it never creates a surprise merge commit and reports a
clear failure on any diverged repository; repositories whose branch has
no upstream are skipped rather than failed. Option:
.B \-\-rebase
(replay local commits onto the upstream instead of fast-forward-only).
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko sync [repos...]
The one-command morning routine: fetch every repository, then
fast-forward only the ones where it is provably safe \(em clean working
tree, an upstream, and no divergence. Everything else is reported, never
touched (dirty repositories show
.IR "dirty (skipped pull)" ,
diverged branches show
.IR "diverged (needs rebase)" ).
Never creates merge commits, never rebases, never risks uncommitted
work. Option:
.B \-\-fetch\-only
(fetch every repository but never pull).
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "BULK OPERATIONS"
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko exec \-\- <command> [args...]
Run an arbitrary command in every registered repository (in parallel),
collecting per-repository exit codes and output. Use
.B \-\-
to separate soko's flags from the command. Options:
.B \-\-seq
(run sequentially, one repository at a time),
.BR \-\-no\-worktrees ", "
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
Honors
.BR \-\-json .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko grep <pattern> [repos...]
Run
.B git grep
across the selected repositories in parallel and group matches by
repository; repositories with no match drop out silently. Read-only;
honors each repository's tracked-file set and
.IR .gitignore .
The pattern is a fixed string by default. Options:
.RS
.TP
.BR \-\-ignore\-case ", " \-i
Case-insensitive match.
.TP
.BR \-\-regexp ", " \-e
Treat the pattern as a POSIX extended regular expression.
.TP
.B \-\-files\-only
List matching file paths only, not lines.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-worktrees ", " \-\-tag
As described in COMMON OPTIONS.
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko apply <source-file> [repos...]
Copy one source file into many repositories, diff-first. By default it
is a dry run that shows a per-repository unified diff and writes
nothing. Writes are local file operations only \(em apply never touches
git or the network. Options:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-to " path"
Destination path relative to each repository root (required).
.TP
.B \-\-write
Write the files after a confirmation prompt (default is the dry-run
diff).
.TP
.B \-\-force
With
.BR \-\-write ,
skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-worktrees ", " \-\-tag
As described in COMMON OPTIONS.
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko clean [repos...]
Delete merged branches across repositories. Options:
.B \-\-dry\-run
(preview without deleting),
.B \-\-prune
(also prune stale remote-tracking refs),
.B \-\-force
(skip confirmation),
.B \-\-select
(interactively narrow the set),
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko undo
Revert the last destructive soko operation (for example a
.B clean
or a
.B ui
pull), using the undo journal. Option:
.B \-\-list
(show the undo journal without reverting anything).
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "WORKSPACE STATE"
Commands that capture and restore the state of many repositories at
once.
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko ctx <save|switch|list|show|drop>
Save and restore workspace
.IR contexts :
the branch each repository is on, plus a stash of any dirty trees. When
an interrupt arrives mid-feature,
.B "ctx save"
records the whole arrangement so
.B "ctx switch"
can bring it back later. Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B save <name> [repos...]
Record the branch per repository and stash dirty repositories (including
untracked files) under a per-context stash message. Options:
.B \-\-force
(overwrite an existing context),
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.TP
.B switch <name>
Restore the saved branches and pop the stashes. Refuses to touch any
repository that is dirty right now \(em save the current state under
another name first. A manually-popped stash degrades to a note, never an
error.
.TP
.B list
List saved contexts with age and stash counts.
.TP
.B show <name>
Show per-repository branch and stash detail for a context.
.TP
.B drop <name>
Forget a context (its stashes stay in their repositories). Option:
.B \-\-force
(skip confirmation).
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko snapshot <save|restore|list|show|drop>
Pin exact positions \(em branch and HEAD SHA per repository. Where
.B ctx
moves work-in-progress between branches,
.B snapshot
records precise commits to return to before a risky bulk operation.
Snapshots never touch uncommitted work, and
.B restore
refuses dirty repositories. Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B save <name> [repos...]
Record branch and HEAD SHA per repository. Options:
.B \-\-force
(overwrite an existing snapshot),
.BI \-\-tag " tag" .
.TP
.B restore <name>
Move each repository back to its recorded branch and commit, rewinding
branches that moved and recreating branches that were deleted.
.TP
.B list
List saved snapshots.
.TP
.B show <name>
Show per-repository detail for a snapshot.
.TP
.B drop <name>
Delete a snapshot. Option:
.B \-\-force
(skip confirmation).
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko worktree <add|list|rm>
Create, list, and remove git worktrees with registry bookkeeping.
Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B add <repo> <branch>
Create a worktree of
.I repo
for
.I branch
and register it. Options:
.BR \-\-path / \-p
(directory for the new worktree; default is a sibling of the main
repository),
.BR \-\-create\-branch / \-b
(create the branch if it does not exist),
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
(tags for the new worktree entry, repeatable).
.TP
.B list
List registered worktrees across repositories.
.TP
.B rm <worktree>
Remove a worktree and unregister it. Option:
.B \-\-force
(remove even if the worktree has uncommitted changes).
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "NAVIGATION"
These commands change your shell's working directory and therefore
require the shell integration (see
.BR "SHELL INTEGRATION" ")."
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko cd <name>
Jump to a registered repository by name (prefix match), including
.I parent/branch
worktree names.
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko go [filter]
Open an interactive picker to choose a repository and navigate to it.
Option:
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
(filter the picker by tag).
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko open [name]
Open a repository in the browser. Auto-detects GitHub, GitLab, or
Bitbucket from the remote URL. With
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
it opens every matching repository. Page options:
.BR \-\-prs " (pull/merge requests), "
.BR \-\-issues ", "
.BR \-\-actions " (CI/CD), "
.BR \-\-branches ", "
.BR \-\-settings .
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "TAGS, METADATA, AND ALIASES"
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko tag [tags...]
With tag arguments, a shorthand to tag the current repository. With no
arguments, prints help. Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B add <tags...>
Add tags to the current repository, or to the repository named by
.BR \-\-repo / \-r .
.TP
.B remove <tags...>
Remove tags from the current repository, or from the
.BR \-\-repo / \-r
target. On a worktree this removes only the worktree's own tags and
errors on tags inherited from the parent.
.TP
.B list
List all tags in use with repository counts.
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko annotate [repo]
Attach free-form
.I key=value
metadata to a repository. Owner, status, priority, and note are
well-known keys, but any key works. With a repository name and no flags,
show that repository's metadata. Then filter
.B list
and
.B status
with
.BR \-\-meta .
Options:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-set " key=value"
Set a metadata key (repeatable).
.TP
.BI \-\-unset " key"
Remove a metadata key (repeatable).
.TP
.B \-\-clear
Remove all metadata from the repository.
.TP
.B \-\-list
List every repository that has metadata.
.TP
.BR \-\-repo ", " \-r
Target repository by name (defaults to the current directory).
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko alias <set|remove|list>
Manage user-defined command shortcuts, stored in the config and expanded
transparently when invoked. An alias name may not shadow a built-in
command. Subcommands:
.B "set <name> <command>"
(create or update; the name must be a single word),
.B "remove <name>"
,
.B list
(show all aliases, honors
.BR \-\-json ")."
For example,
.B soko alias set morning "sync \-\-tag work"
makes
.B soko morning
run
.BR "soko sync \-\-tag work" .
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "INTERACTIVE DASHBOARD"
.TP
.B soko ui
Open a full-screen, auto-refreshing dashboard of the workspace: each
repository's branch, dirty state, ahead/behind, last-commit age, and a
health badge. Local state refreshes every 5 seconds (cheap, no network);
it is meant to live in a
.BR tmux (1)
pane all day. Options:
.BI \-\-tag " tag"
(filter) and
.BI \-\-fetch " duration"
(fetch from remotes in the background on the given interval, e.g.\&
.BR "\-\-fetch 5m" ;
the minimum is 30 seconds, 0 disables).
.PP
The only mutating keys are
.B P
(pull) and
.B u
(undo); a pull is fast-forward-only, confirmed, and recorded in the
journal so it can be reverted.
.SS "Key bindings (normal mode)"
.TP
.BR j ", " k ", " Down ", " Up
Move the cursor down / up one row.
.TP
.BR g ", " G ", " Home ", " End
Jump to the top / bottom.
.TP
.BR Ctrl-d ", " Ctrl-u ", " PgDn ", " PgUp
Move a half page / full page down or up.
.TP
.BR s ", " S
Cycle the sort mode forward / backward
.RI ( name " \[->] " dirty " \[->] " behind " \[->] " health ).
.TP
.BR f ", " F
Cycle the filter forward / backward
.RI ( all " \[->] " dirty " \[->] " behind " \[->] " ahead " \[->] " conflicts ).
.TP
.BR t ", " T
Cycle the tag filter forward / backward (all tags, then each tag).
.TP
.B b
Toggle the group-by-tag view.
.TP
.B /
Enter search mode (filter by name, branch, or tag).
.TP
.B space
Mark / unmark the repository under the cursor for a batch action, then
advance.
.TP
.B *
Mark all visible repositories, or unmark them all if every one is already
marked.
.TP
.B P
Pull (fast-forward-only, after a
.RB [ y/N ]
confirmation). Acts on the marked repositories if any are marked,
otherwise the repository under the cursor. A batch pull is one journal
entry, so
.B u
rewinds the whole batch.
.TP
.B u
Undo the last recorded pull (after confirmation), resetting each pulled
repository to its pre-pull commit.
.TP
.B r
Re-fetch all repositories from their remotes now.
.TP
.B R
Fetch only the repository under the cursor.
.TP
.B y
Copy the cursor repository's path to the system clipboard.
.TP
.BR o ", " p ", " i ", " a
Open the cursor repository in the browser: home, pull requests, issues,
or actions.
.TP
.B L
List the cursor repository's open pull requests in an overlay (via the
.B gh
CLI).
Navigate with
.BR j / k ;
.B Enter
(or
.BR o )
opens the selected pull request in the browser;
.BR Esc / q
closes the overlay.
.TP
.B Enter
Select the cursor repository, write the shell navigation file, and quit
(the actual
.B cd
requires shell integration).
.TP
.B ?
Toggle the full key-binding help overlay.
.TP
.BR q ", " Esc
Quit.
.B Esc
first unwinds one level of state \(em it clears an active search, then
resets active filters \(em before quitting. While a pull is in flight,
the first
.B q
warns and a second confirms.
.TP
.B Ctrl-c
Quit immediately from any mode.
.PP
In search mode, type to filter live; press
.B Enter
or
.B Tab
to commit the query and return to normal mode, or
.B Esc
to cancel and clear it.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "CONFIGURATION AND SETUP"
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko config <path|edit|get|set|list>
View and manage configuration. Subcommands:
.RS
.TP
.B path
Print the resolved config file path.
.TP
.B edit
Open the config file in
.BR $EDITOR .
.TP
.B set <key> <value>
Set a config value and save. The documented key is
.I git_path
(path to a custom git binary; defaults to
.B git
on
.BR $PATH ).
.TP
.B get <key>
Print a config value.
.TP
.B list
Show the effective config:
.IR git_path ,
alias count, discovery status, and repository count.
.RE
All
.B config
subcommands honor
.BR \-\-json .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko shell-init
Print a shell hook that enables
.BR "soko cd" ", " "soko go" ,
and
.BR "soko ui" 's
.B Enter
to change your working directory, and exports
.BR SOKO_SHELL_INTEGRATION=1 .
The hook runs after each command and consumes a single-shot navigation
file written by soko. When auto-discovery is enabled, a directory-change
discovery block is appended. Default output is bash/zsh; use
.B \-\-fish
for fish or
.B \-\-pwsh
for PowerShell. Install it with, respectively:
.RS
.PP
.nf
.B eval "$(soko shell-init)"          # bash / zsh
.B soko shell-init \-\-fish | source     # fish
.B soko shell-init \-\-pwsh | Invoke-Expression   # PowerShell
.fi
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko doc
Run health checks on the soko setup and print pass / warning / error
results: git is installed, the config loads, every registered repository
exists and is a git repository with an origin remote, no duplicate names
or paths, shell integration is configured, and discovery status. Option:
.B \-\-fix
(remove repositories whose paths no longer exist or are no longer git
repositories). Honors
.BR \-\-json .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko completion <shell>
Generate a shell autocompletion script for
.IR bash ", " zsh ", " fish ", or " powershell .
.\" ----------------------------------
.TP
.B soko version
Print the soko version string.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SOKO_QUIET
Fallback for
.BR \-\-quiet ;
applied only when the flag is not passed. Treated as
.I on
only when its lowercased, trimmed value is
.IR 1 ", " true ", or " yes ;
anything else (including empty,
.IR 0 ", " false ", " no ,
or a typo) is
.IR off .
.TP
.B SOKO_PERF
Fallback for
.BR \-\-perf ,
with the same truthy parsing as
.BR SOKO_QUIET .
.TP
.B SOKO_SHELL_INTEGRATION
Set to
.I 1
by the
.B soko shell-init
hook and read by soko to detect that the integration is installed. When
unset,
.B soko ui
cannot make
.B Enter
change directory and prints a one-time hint instead.
.TP
.B EDITOR
Editor launched by
.BR "soko config edit" .
When unset, falls back to
.B vi
on Unix or
.B notepad
on Windows.
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
When set, the config (and the journal, snapshots, and navigation file)
lives under
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/soko/ .
.TP
.BR LOCALAPPDATA ", " USERPROFILE
Windows config base directories, used when
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
is unset.
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
When set, disables ANSI color. Honored automatically by the color
library; soko does not parse it directly.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Failure. Any error returned by a command is printed to standard error as
.RI "  \[u2717] " message
and the process exits 1. There are no other process exit codes.
.PP
Per-repository JSON failures additionally carry a stable
.I error_code
string field \(em one of
.IR path_missing ", " no_upstream ", " dirty_tree ", "
.IR not_fast_forward ", " merge_conflict ", " auth_failed ", "
.IR git_failure ", or " unknown .
These appear only inside JSON output and are not process exit codes.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/soko/config.yaml
The configuration file and repository registry. The path is resolved in
order:
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/soko/config.yaml ;
else, on Windows,
.IR %LOCALAPPDATA%\esoko\econfig.yaml ;
else
.IR ~/.config/soko/config.yaml .
The directory is created mode 0700 and the file written atomically mode
0600. It stores the repository registry (name, path, tags,
.IR worktree_of ,
and free-form metadata),
.IR git_path ,
aliases, saved contexts, and discovery settings.
.TP
.I ~/.config/soko/journal.yaml
The capped undo journal of recent destructive operations, used by
.BR "soko undo" .
.TP
.I ~/.config/soko/snapshots/<name>.yaml
One file per named snapshot of repository branch / HEAD / dirty state.
.TP
.I ~/.config/soko/.nav
A single-shot path written by
.BR "soko cd" / "soko go"
for the shell hook to
.B cd
into, then deleted.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "COLOR"
Color is enabled when writing to an interactive terminal and disabled
automatically when output is piped or redirected, or when
.B NO_COLOR
is set. JSON output (\fB\-\-json\fR) is never colorized.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH EXAMPLES
Enable shell integration, then register and inspect a workspace:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B eval "$(soko shell-init)"
.B soko scan ~/projects \-\-tag work
.B soko status
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show only the backend repositories that are behind their remote:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B soko status \-\-tag backend \-\-behind
.fi
.RE
.PP
The morning routine \(em fetch everything and fast-forward what is safe:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B soko sync
.fi
.RE
.PP
Search every repository for a symbol, case-insensitively:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B soko grep handleAuth \-i
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run a command across only the tagged repositories:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B soko exec \-\-tag go \-\- go mod tidy
.fi
.RE
.PP
Save the current branch arrangement before handling an interrupt, then
restore it:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B soko ctx save client-a
.B soko ctx switch client-a
.fi
.RE
.PP
Copy a CI workflow into every Go repository, reviewing the diff first:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.B soko apply ci.yml \-\-to .github/workflows/ci.yml \-\-tag go
.B soko apply ci.yml \-\-to .github/workflows/ci.yml \-\-tag go \-\-write
.fi
.RE
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR git (1),
.BR git-worktree (1),
.BR git-grep (1),
.BR tmux (1)
.PP
Project home and full documentation:
.B https://github.com/CelikE/soko
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Emil Celik.
.\" ----------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2026 Emil Celik. Released under the MIT License.
